Mindfire Solutions Case Study
Public Web shop
For selling furniture online

Executive Summary

This is a re-engineering project that we did for the client. The core business logic was taken from the
existing system and then all redundant functionalities were removed and the entire application was re-
written in ColdFusion.

Actually early-on client had started this project with an in-house developer but after few months into the
build they figured out that it was an immature written code not good enough for making live. That is client
got in touch with us. We set up a two developer team with a shared QA resource for testing, directly
reporting to the project manager of the Client.

Since client had already spent time in building it in-house, time left for go to live was very less.
It took our team 2 months to recode from scratch all basic function of public website and a basic site
administrator and got it live on time with good quality.

The client was also having multiple public facing websites of his furniture shop with different branding
needs. The first website is designed such that, all the site look and feel  (including header, footer, css,
images) the same and product catalogue is dynamically customizable to rebrand quickly and release as a
new website.

Once that first web site for the client was launched, the focus changed to creating replicas of the same,
using the core content driven architecture and two more websites are made live within a span of a week.

About our Client

Client Furniture manufacture and reseller | Location US    | Industry Ecommerce

Application features implemented by Mindfire

Special features:

1. CMS Driven website and dynamic menu/ submenu
2. High resolution Product image slider and zoom in facility
3. Fully Ajax shopping cart showing product images, pop up on product addition to cart
4. Live chat facility integration
5. Tracking order status
6. 3 way payment facility
7. IP tracing and blocking for spam attack/ unauthorized access

info@mindfiresolutions.com       www.mindfiresolutions.comMindfire Solutions Case Study
Site Admin Functionality

The application has following management facility in admin section.

1. Page
2. Manufacturers
3. Product Category, Fabric Selection & Products
4. Product Tab management
5. Orders
6. Reporting
7. Promo code Management
8. IP Blocking
9. Customers

Page:

The site admin is designed to manage all the public pages title, URL and page content. The admin section
includes a Content Management Admin tool to manage content of pages like Home, About us, Contact us, FAQ
etc.

Home page:

Manufacturers:

Product manufacturer details like contact details, profit margin, products list they provide etc. are managed
here.

Product Category, Fabric Selection & Products management

info@mindfiresolutions.com       www.mindfiresolutions.comMindfire Solutions Case Study
Facility to manage (add, modify, remove, deactivate) categories products, fabrics, images etc is present in Admin
section. Products can also be associated with product options for combined product sale and associated
discount management.

Product Page

Product Tab management

The admin is provided with facility to create tabs to show the product related details in multiple tabs in product
page. The tab ordering can also be managed. One single product created can be made visible in 3 categories. Tab
created for one product can be shared for more products of that category or manufacture.

Admin – Managing Product details

info@mindfiresolutions.com       www.mindfiresolutions.comMindfire Solutions Case Study

Order:

The order section provides facility to check all the orders and order details like products ordered, payment
details and the amount left to be payable. Here we have facility to accept payment manually.

The admin can modify part of the order like the product choice, quantity, and address of the customer, the price
of each product, billing and shipping address, tag name.

In order section admin can also change order status for products to ordered, shipped, completed or can also
cancel the order. Admin can write notes for manufacturer for specific order. They can also write order status
note for customers.

Reporting:

The reporting section provides facility to look for following types of report

 Customer balance sheet summary
 Invoice profit estimator summary
 Transaction timeline

Quick links are also provided to check customer balance sheet for today, one month, six month, this quarter, one
year, two years.

Facility is present to check the monthly sale report in graphical format. The admin can look for the products sold
for different manufactures. Admin can also keep track of the products which are visited by customers, for
making better business plan.

Admin Sample report

info@mindfiresolutions.com       www.mindfiresolutions.comMindfire Solutions Case Study

Promo Code Management:

For a promotional sale, admin can set promo code, the time till which it will stay active and the amount or
percentage that will be deducted. Admin can also see the users who have used the promo code.

IP Blocking:

Admin can block and unblock any user by blocking his public IP using Blocked IP manager to prevent spam
attacks form attackers IP.

Customers Management:

In member management section admin can check for products which are in cart with the customer. Admin can
manage all details with the customers and can also reset the password for a customer.

Payment Options:

Here customers can pay in 3 ways.

 Using Credit card
 Call with Credit card
 Through wire transfer.

The site is integrated with trusted third party payment processor, the Beanstream, for payment by credit card.
During making purchase customer can also write notes to admin on his order like the urgency or time of call or
any negotiations etc.

Once the customer makes any purchase, he/she is immediately mailed the order details. At some occasions the
site provides customers with promo code facility to get discount on total purchase. The customers can easily

info@mindfiresolutions.com       www.mindfiresolutions.comMindfire Solutions Case Study
track their orders by visiting My Account page. Customers are also regularly emailed about the order status with
admin note on it, with each progress made in order status.

Technologies

Server Side Language:  ColdFusion 9

Database:   MySQL 5

Scripting Language:  Javascript  (jQuery)

Future relationship

The client was pleased with Mindfire’s effort and reckoned that they were happy to have discovered a
professional offshore IT unit. We shall continue to be the service provider for the next versions of the client’s
product. They have not only allocated the support and maintenance work of the current system to Mindfire but
have also chosen us for future customization work.

info@mindfiresolutions.com       www.mindfiresolutions.com